JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away this week.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
Ahead of five state presidential
primaries
tomorrow, Ted Cruz and John
Kasich join forces
to block Republican front-runner
Donald Trump.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Monday:
a choice between a party insider
and an insurgent
-- how Maryland's Democratic
Senate primary
mirrors the Democratic contest
for president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And one year
after a deadly
earthquake in Nepal kills 8,000,
we examine
the struggles to rebuild amid
poverty and
political instability.
ARLENE SAMEN, One Heart
World-Wide: There's
millions of dollars that were
raised that
still have not been deployed and
could be
and should be given to people so
they could
rebuild.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Plus, Beyonce
drops her
latest album, "Lemonade," and
the artist continues
on to write her own rules. We
examine her
path.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Republican
presidential
race is suddenly boiling again
over a deal
to deny the nomination to the
front-runner.
The news came last night that
John Kasich
and Ted Cruz will give each
other a clear
path in selected states.
The response came today.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Did you see the news today? Did
you see where
they band together, where they
collude? You
know, it's collusion.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Donald Trump had
already blasted
his rivals in late-night tweets.
Today, he
railed against them in Rhode
Island.
DONALD TRUMP: If you collude in
business or
if you collude in the stock
market, they put
you in jail. But, in politics,
because it's
a rigged system, because it's a
corrupt enterprise,
in politics, you're allowed to
collude.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Cruz-Kasich
noncompete
calls for the Texas senator to
stop campaigning
in Oregon and New Mexico, and
for Kasich to
stay away from Indiana.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
God bless the great state of
Indiana.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Today, in Borden,
Indiana,
Cruz reveled in the opportunity
to go head-to-head
with Trump in the May 3 primary.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
I understand that Donald will
whine. That
is what he does. Donald is a
sore loser. I
get that the Trump campaign is
scared. They're
scared of Indiana.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Kasich campaigned
in Philadelphia,
painting the agreement as
nothing out of the
ordinary.
GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH),
Presidential Candidate:
What's the big deal? We're going
to go to
a convention. It's going to be
an open convention
and then the delegates will pick
that person
who can do the best in the fall.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All of which had
Trump stepping
up the insults. He called Kasich
a stubborn
child who eats in a disgusting
fashion. And
he dismissed Cruz as a basket
case.
Democrat Hillary Clinton took
her own shots
at Trump as she stumped in
Wilmington, Delaware.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
If you want to be president of
the United
States, you have got to get
familiar with
the United States. Don't just
fly that big
jet in and land it and go make a
big speech
and insult everybody you can
think of.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton's
increasingly long-shot
rival, Bernie Sanders,
campaigned through
Connecticut and Pennsylvania,
insisting he's
still viable.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
In fact, if you look at some of
the national
polls in the last couple weeks,
guess what?
We're winning a few of them.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Turns out
that in all
the national polls and the state
polls, we
are 15, 20 points ahead of
Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Both Sanders and
Clinton will
appear in town halls in
Philadelphia tonight.
We will analyze all of this
later in the program.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the day's
other news:
Cleveland officials announced
the city will
pay the family of Tamir Rice $6
million to
settle a wrongful death lawsuit.
The 12-year-old
was playing with a pellet gun in
November
2014, when someone called
police. A white
officer shot and killed him
seconds after
arriving on the scene.
FRANK JACKSON, Mayor of
Cleveland, Ohio: Irregardless
of faults or facts or anything,
that shouldn't
have happened. And, believe me,
if I had my
rathers, I wouldn't be standing
here in front
of you today talking about this.
If I had
my rathers, it would not have
happened. But
that's not the case, is it? So,
we deal with
things as we have to deal with
them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A grand jury
declined to
bring charges, but a federal
civil rights
investigation is pending.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In economic news,
new numbers
show the plunge in oil prices is
costing oil-exporting
nations in the Middle East
staggering sums.
The International Monetary Fund
reports they
lost $390 billion last year over
2014. The
report predicts they will lose
$500 billion
this year.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In Saudi
Arabia, the government
laid out reform priorities today
to steer
the kingdom away from its
reliance on oil.
King Salman announced the Vision
2030 plan
in a short televised address.
His son, the
deputy crown prince, spelled out
the details
in a recorded interview.
MOHAMMED BIN SALMAN, Saudi
Arabian Deputy
Crown Prince (through
translator): The plan's
ambitions will encompass
unemployment, housing,
and other issues. Our ambition
is how we develop
the economy and how we can
create an attractive
and great environment in our
country, and
to be part of development on
economic, environmental,
cultural, and intellectual
levels.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The prince
said the country
has become addicted to oil, and
that a small
part of the state-owned oil
giant Aramco will
be privatized.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Government and
allied forces
in Yemen today wrested control
of the country's
largest oil terminal from
al-Qaida. They recaptured
the facility a day after taking
Mukalla along
the southwestern coast. Al-Qaida
had established
a mini-state in that part of
Yemen, as the
country fell into chaos.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The president
of Afghanistan
demanded today that Pakistan
step up the fight
against Taliban forces operating
from within
its borders. Ashraf Ghani
addressed his parliament
just a week after a Taliban
attack in Kabul
killed 64 people and wounded
hundreds.
ASHRAF GHANI, President of
Afghanistan (through
translator): We don't expect
Pakistan to bring
the Taliban into peace talks. We
want Pakistan
to stand by what they pledged
and to conduct
military operations against
Taliban bases
and leadership, who, according
to our intelligence,
according to our international
allies, and
according to Pakistani
authorities, live in
Pakistan.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Pakistan
denies that it
covertly supports militants who
attack Afghanistan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Long-running
violence in Mexico,
fueled by drug gangs, has
claimed another
victim. Gunmen killed a
journalist today in
the country's southwest, the
latest in a series
of such attacks. And on Sunday,
an independent
panel accused the Mexican
government of undermining
a probe into the deaths of 43
college students.
They disappeared in 2014.
HARI SREENIVASAN: President
Obama made a final
appeal today for a free trade
agreement with
Europe as he wrapped up a visit
to Germany.
He and Chancellor Angela Merkel
toured the
world's largest industrial
technology trade
fair in Hannover and tested some
of the wares.
They included virtual reality
glasses complete
with plastic googly eyes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hmm. I wonder
what it looked
like.
Well, Wall Street's week got off
to a sluggish
start. The Dow Jones industrial
average lost
26 points to close at 17977. The
Nasdaq fell
10, and the S&P 500 slipped
three.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And a federal
appeals court
panel has restored a four-game
suspension
for New England Patriots
quarterback Tom Brady.
It stems from his use of
underinflated footballs
in the 2015 conference
championship game.
A lower court had quashed the
penalty.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Still to come on
the "NewsHour":
the president orders 250 more
military personnel
to Syria; two Democrats fight it
out for a
U.S. Senate seat in Maryland, a
microcosm
of the national intraparty
divide; Nepal's
reconstruction one year after a
devastating
earthquake; and much more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: More American
troops are
heading for Syria as the U.S.
looks to press
the fight against ISIS. This
comes just days
after the secretary of defense
announced the
deployment of additional forces
to Iraq to
take on the militants there.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
I have approved the deployment
of up to 250
additional U.S. personnel in
Syria, including
special forces, to keep up this
momentum.
HARI SREENIVASAN: With that,
President Obama
pledged to boost the number of
American troops
inside Syria by five-fold. Most
are special
forces, and the president said
again to PBS
and CBS News host Charlie Rose
they won't
be in a combat role.
BARACK OBAMA: Although we are
not going to
be sending ground troops in to
fight, we are
going to try to find out what
works and then
double down. And one of the
things that's
worked so far is us putting
special forces
in for training and advising of
local forces,
but also intelligence-gathering.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The first 50
special forces
troops deployed to Syria last
fall. They have
helped opposition fighters make
gains, and
the Pentagon says one of the
goals now is
to capture Raqqa, the Islamic
State's de facto
capital.
PETER COOK, Pentagon Press
Secretary: And
we think this deployment will
certainly help
to amp the pressure even higher
at a critical
time and perhaps, again, speed
up the overall
timeline for when we might be
able to retake
-- when these forces can retake
Raqqa.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Turkey has
also exchanged
artillery fire with ISIS along
its southern
border. Meanwhile, the
cease-fire in Syria's
other war, between government
forces and rebel
groups, is unraveling. In recent
days, fighting
has erupted around contested
Aleppo, the country's
largest city.
Opposition groups say government
airstrikes
killed dozens of people there
over the weekend.
MAN (through translator): Around
five people
died. I carried two dead, one
woman from this
location and a man from nearby.
The attacks
on Aleppo in this latest period
have been
fierce and strong.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The resumption
in heavy
fighting has all but derailed
U.N. efforts
at peace talks in Geneva. U.N.
mediators met
with Syrian government officials
today, but
the main opposition group backed
out of the
discussions last week.
For more on all this, I'm joined
now by Andrew
Tabler of the Washington
Institute. He's in
Moscow learning more about
Russia's role in
Syria. And Nancy Youssef, she is
the senior
national security correspondent
for The Daily
Beast.
Nancy, let me start with you.
What's the purpose of these
additional troops?
What are they going to be doing
on the ground?
NANCY YOUSSEF, The Daily Beast:
There are
upwards of 250 special forces
and support
staff, medical staff and
otherwise, and their
job there is to build a capable,
bigger, stronger
Syrian democratic force that
could potentially
and eventually go in reclaim the
city of Raqqa,
Islamic State's capital in
Syria.
Their mission is twofold, to
work with Kurdish
forces and provide them with
support, and
then to also find Arab forces
who will work
with the Kurds. Because Raqqa is
an Arab city,
U.S. military believe that Arab
fighters should
be in to reclaim the city and
lead the fight
to reclaim Raqqa.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Andrew,
strategically, how
likely is that to happen?
ANDREW TABLER, Fellow,
Washington Institute
for Near East Policy: The Kurds
are quite
strong fighters. They lack
depth, particularly
demographic depth among the Arab
populations
in Raqqa.
That's why, as Nancy said, the
Syrian democratic
forces is a way to get those
Arab forces to
work together with the Kurds and
hopefully
oust, eventually, the Islamic
State from Raqqa.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Nancy, is the
Pentagon concerned
about the increased military
activity that's
been happening from Russia right
now just
in the past few weeks?
NANCY YOUSSEF: Some people are
and some people
aren't.
They're having a hard time
really assessing
with certainty whether this is
an attempt
by the Russians to really
escalate their presence
in Syria or this is a rotational
movement
that's happening now, that
they're not seeing
what portends of a full-fledged
assault. While
they're seeing incremental
increases by the
Russians, they're also seeing
the withdrawal
of some of their assault
aircraft.
And there has been a lot of sort
of wait and
see in terms of assessing the
Russian movement
in Syria and what it means. This
all comes
in the backdrop of a cessation
of hostilities
agreement that appears to be in
peril. And
so, because of that, it's been
hard to make,
from what I hear in the
Pentagon, definitive
assessments on what the Russians
are doing
in Syria right now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Andrew Tabler,
what's behind
some of these moves where the
Russians seem
to be pulling some equipment
back and putting
other equipment in?
ANDREW TABLER: Well, there is a
real concern
about the negotiations that are
going on in
Geneva. They felt previously
that President
Assad perhaps received too much
Russian support.
He was becoming increasingly
rigid in his
negotiating positions.
They were a little bit
disappointed with him
on the battlefield as well. He
only gained
about 5 percent back of Syrian
territory over
the last few months. But, in
reality, someone
among the opposition has shot
down three regime
planes in the last two months.
And I think that's the reason
why we have
seen some Russian aircraft
cycled out of Syria
and some helicopters with some
countermeasures
brought in that can make their
forces more
effective.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Nancy, is
there concern
in the Pentagon right now that
this could
draw out into something much
longer? I mean,
the phrase usually has been
mission creep
or resource creep.
NANCY YOUSSEF: Well, the
military doesn't
really embrace the idea of the
term mission
creep, but you are starting to
hear the term
resource creep, because the
reality is this
strategy against the Islamic
State hasn't
changed.
The goal is to degrade and
ultimately defeat
ISIS, as the president spelled
out in September
2014. The resources keep
changing towards
that. And so there is some
frustration in
the Pentagon about the
incrementalism of the
deployment of troops.
And some are even openly asking
what would
have happened had, instead of
sending 200
here and 200 there, 1,000 or
2,000 had been
deployed earlier on? Would the
war against
the Islamic State being going
quicker?
And so, today, you really
started to hear
the phrase resource creep about
whether sending
in troops incrementally is less
for military
reasons and more for political,
and whether
that calculation is actually
delaying or slowing
down the effort to defeat the
Islamic State.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Andrew Tabler,
also, the
city of Aleppo right now, a
large city in
Syria, it seems to be almost
poised for a
significant onslaught.
ANDREW TABLER: That's right.
During the cessation of
hostilities which
is not a cease-fire, there has
been a lot
of fighting and a lot of raids,
particularly
by the regime, to close the ring
around Aleppo.
We think that they intend to
close it and
then squeeze, which will then
expel people
from the neighboring areas and
also create
a huge humanitarian disaster.
The question is, will the
Russians go along
with it or will they hold back
as negotiations
continue in Geneva? But since
those negotiations
aren't going well, we will have
to wait and
see what the Russians choose in
the coming
days.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Nancy, it
seems the military
has a couple of different lines
of thinking
here. On the one side, there's
the Assad regime,
and there's the ISIS attacks,
right? So how
do they deploy their military
resources effectively
enough?
NANCY YOUSSEF: What you're
seeing is a real
focus on the defeat of the
Islamic State from
a military perspective.
You will hear that said
repeatedly. And the
deployment of these forces both
in Iraq and
Syria sort of suggest that. In
Iraq, you have
had more forces moved along the
route to Mosul,
which is ISIS' capital in Iraq.
And in Syria,
these forces are going to be
going in the
northeast corner of Syria, where
Kurdish forces
have been able to move toward
Raqqa.
And so militarily you're seeing
a focus on
the defeat of the Islamic State
and not a
focus on the Assad regime. That
may be Russia's
focus, but there has been a real
effort by
the Pentagon to keep the focus
on the defeat
of that terror group.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Andrew, when
you talk about
these -- not just the peace
talks that don't
seem to be going well or the
cessation that
isn't going well, that tension
between the
United States and Russia right
now on trying
to go on these multiple fronts
and trying
to get cooperation from the
Russians?
ANDREW TABLER: That's right.
It's strange. You know, in
Syria, we're negotiating
with Russia, and also trying --
the Russians
desperately want military
cooperation in Syria
as well, at the same time that
planes are
buzzing our battleships in the
Baltic Sea.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Andrew Tabler
joining us from Moscow, Nancy
Youssef of The
Daily Beast, thanks so much.
NANCY YOUSSEF: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tomorrow, voters
will go to
the polls in five East Coast
states to choose
their party's nominee to be the
next president.
But, in Maryland, it's the
Democratic primary
race to replace longtime U.S.
Senator Barbara
Mikulski that is dominating the
headlines,
and exposing some of the same
divisions playing
out in the national Democratic
contest for
president.
John Yang has our report.
JOHN YANG: At a rally for
striking Verizon
workers, two candidates for the
Maryland Democratic
Senate nomination appealed to a
key constituency:
organized labor.
Donna Edwards was elected to
Congress the
same year Barack Obama was
elected the first
African-American president.
REP. DONNA EDWARDS (D-MD),
Senatorial Candidate:
I think it is time for Verizon
exclusives
to set aside their $1.8 billion
a month. I
can't even conceive that.
JOHN YANG: She's running as a
fresh face challenging
the establishment.
Chris Van Hollen is a seven-term
member of
Congress from a wealthy
Washington suburb,
a member of his party's
leadership in the
House.
REP. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (D-MD),
Senatorial Candidate:
Who do you think is responsible
for generating
all those profits? You are
responsible.
JOHN YANG: The two are locked in
an unexpectedly
close race. Analysts say it
mirrors tensions
in the presidential contest
between mainstream
Democrats backing Hillary
Clinton and supporters
of Bernie Sanders, who feel left
out of the
political process.
Whoever wins the Democratic
primary will be
the overwhelming favorite in the
fall to succeed
Barbara Mikulski, the
longest-serving female
senator. In Maryland, registered
Democrats
outnumber Republicans 2-1.
Van Hollen believes he's the
natural heir
to Mikulski's legacy, a rising
star in the
party, a protege of Democratic
Leader Nancy
Pelosi who helped push Obamacare
through Congress.
REP. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN: My
argument is that
there is a big difference
between simply voting
a certain way on issues and
actually doing
the hard work to get results. I
have always
recognized that, when you have
divided government,
you fight hard and to the finish
to protect
things that should never be
touched, like
a woman's right to choose, but
you also look
for common ground to try to make
sure that
the country can move forward, if
not 100 yards
at a time, five, 10 yards at a
time.
JOHN YANG: Edwards says she
would bring a
unique and much-needed voice as
only the second
African-American woman ever to
serve in the
Senate.
REP. DONNA EDWARDS: I don't hide
the fact
that I'm an African-American
woman. I raised
my son mostly on my own when I
was growing
up. And it gives me a
perspective about issues
that impact working people and
working families
that is distinct from any that
is present
in the United States Senate
right now.
NARRATOR: Powerful interests
don't want Democrat
Donna Edwards.
JOHN YANG: National progressive
groups have
stepped in with television ads
supporting
Edwards to counter Van Hollen's
fund-raising
edge.
REP. DONNA EDWARDS: I have
worked with the
Progressive Caucus. I have
supported progressive
budgets, none of which my
opponent has done.
And so I don't think it's a
great surprise.
Long before I came into
Congress, I was a
progressive, and long after I
leave, I will
be.
JOHN YANG: Van Hollen has
responded by emphasizing
his own progressive roots.
REP. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN: We have
got the Maryland
progressives because, in
Maryland, progressives
are actually interested in
getting results.
They're not interested in sound
bites. They're
not interested in rhetoric.
They're interested
in results. They're interested
in seeing measurable
progress. And I'm proud to have
a record of
doing that.
JOHN YANG: The choice between
two candidates
who are otherwise so similar on
policy issues
and voting records has torn many
Maryland
Democrats.
WOMAN: I like both of them. I
like where they
both stand.
JOHN YANG: Toni Price (ph) is a
striking Verizon
worker.
WOMAN: Donna Edwards, I have
talked to her
a number of times, and we have a
lot in common.
I think they both can get the
job done, but
I am leaning more toward
Edwards.
JOHN YANG: Leepo Yu is a Van
Hollen volunteer.
LEEPO YU, Van Hollen Volunteer:
I would like
to see a female senator, but, on
the other
hand, we have the issues, the
pros and cons.
And I think Van Hollen will be
ready day one.
JOHN YANG: The state's largest
city has emerged
as the key battleground. Polls
show both candidates
handily winning their home
districts in the
Washington suburbs. The race
could be decided
here in Baltimore, played out
against the
backdrop of the death last year
of Freddie
Gray, fatally injured while in
police custody.
Voters will go the polls one
year to the week
after the demonstrations against
police turned
violent.
Reverend Jamal Bryant, a
Baltimore community
leader, delivered Gray's eulogy.
We spoke
with him on the anniversary of
Gray's death.
REV. JAMAL BRYANT, Empowerment
Temple Church:
I think that America is in a
place of change.
People are looking for someone
different,
somebody who is not afraid to
challenge the
system, who is not part of the
old boy network.
JOHN YANG: What happened a year
ago, a year
ago today, does that make it
more urgent,
more necessary for
representation by someone
like Donna Edwards?
REV. JAMAL BRYANT: I think it's
a reminder
of what's left undone, that
given our current
crisis, a Band-Aid doesn't take
the place
of open heart surgery. I just
think that America,
and, all the more, Baltimore is
looking for
a new voice and a new face.
YVETTE LEWIS, Former Maryland
Democratic Party
Chair: We cannot sit back and
say this is
it.
JOHN YANG: Making history with a
new voice
and a new face doesn't motivate
former Maryland
Democratic Party Chair Yvette
Lewis, an African-American
voter backing Van Hollen.
YVETTE LEWIS: I think that votes
are too important
to be reduced to a demographic,
whether it's
race or gender. I think votes
need to be given
to those people who have earned
it and who
have shown that they will
deliver the results
for their constituents. I don't
think you
necessarily need to look like me
in order
to do what's best for me.
JOHN YANG: A big challenge for
Van Hollen
is convincing black voters that
he can represent
them effectively.
REP. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN:
Regardless of race,
regardless of background,
ethnicity, or gender,
people want somebody who is
going to be able
to deliver results on issues
that matter to
their community.
JOHN YANG: Whoever wins on
Tuesday, the dynamics
of this race have already
reshaped the debate
within the Democratic Party,
broadening the
issues being discussed and the
people discussing
them.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang in Baltimore.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And on the eve of
the Northeast
primaries, now is the perfect
time for Politics
Monday.
Amy Walter of The Cook Political
Report joins
me here. Tamara Keith of NPR is
in Philadelphia.
And we welcome both of you.
So, Amy, let's pivot back to the
headline
on the Republican side. And that
is Ted Cruz
and John Kasich colluding, in
Donald Trump's
words, getting together to try
to divide up
the next few states, not
tomorrow, but next
week, to try to undercut Trump.
Is this a
smart thing on their part?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: You
know that saying, Judy, about
the horse in
the barn and closing the barn
door after the
horse has gone out?
It feels as if this was a really
smart strategy
maybe a month ago, but now it's
really too
late. We have gone through 43
contests, and
they're now deciding that by
they should come
together. We only have 13 left.
Look, I think what we're in,
we're in a phase
right now that I'm calling
momentum vs. math,
and the reality is the math is
working against
Donald Trump in some ways. There
is a way
in which Kasich and Cruz could
stop, prevent
Donald Trump from getting the
1,237 delegates
he needs to be the nominee or to
get it on
the very first ballot in
Cleveland in July,
but the momentum is with Donald
Trump right
now.
He is expected to do very well
tomorrow night
in the primaries. He's going to
come out with
a head of steam. He's going to
a lot of votes and with the most
delegates
going into the convention. It's
going to get
harder and harder for the math
argument to
win over the momentum argument.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara, what do
you think?
Does this make sense? And we
should point
out that today, after this
agreement was cut,
you had John Kasich saying,
well, I still
expect people in Indiana to vote
for me.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Right.
So it's not clear how strong
this agreement
really is. In some ways, it
might just be
a Bat Signal to the super PACs
to say, hey,
super PACs, put your emphasis
over here, put
your emphasis over there.
In California, I know that the
never Trump
movement or -- well, movement
may not be the
right word, but the people
working on the
never Trump campaign are going
to be going
congressional district by
congressional district
very soon, telling voters
directly which way,
which candidate they think they
should vote
for if they want to have the
best chance to
stop Trump, congressional
district by congressional
district, because that's the way
delegates
are allocated.
But it's really not clear
whether in California
or Indiana or New Mexico or
Oregon whether
this is really, truly going to
work, or whether
Donald Trump already has such a
prohibitive
lead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, it does seem
to play into
Donald Trump's argument, the one
he's been
making for weeks now, that the
system is rigged.
AMY WALTER: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Here, his two
main opponents
are saying let's get together to
deny him
delegates.
AMY WALTER: You could not have
written the
script better for Donald Trump.
He's saying
the establishment is against me,
the system
is rigged against me.
And then his two opponents go,
yes, it kind
of is, we're going to do
whatever we can to
prevent you from getting the
needed number
of delegates before we get to
the convention.
So it only further plays into
this momentum
argument that I made before.
Plus, if you
look at the polling that's been
coming out
in these last few days asking
about Republican
voters, how do you feel about a
contested
convention, what if the
candidate with the
most votes, the most delegates
doesn't get
the nomination, right now, 38
percent of Republicans
say they would be -- it will be
acceptable
to them if the person with the
most delegates
lost, didn't have the majority,
but came in,
but then lost the nomination.
And most of those are Trump
supporters, but
a good chunk, probably 45
percent or 46 percent
of those people, saying it would
be unacceptable
for Trump not to win or the
person with the
most votes not to win are Cruz
voters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A sense of
fairness at some
point.
AMY WALTER: Exactly. Exactly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Tamara,
meanwhile -- I
will just mention this quickly
-- Ted Cruz's
camp put out the word today that
he's already
got a short list of vice
presidential running
mate possibilities.
TAMARA KEITH: Well, this is
crazy times. And
you don't know what's going to
happen with
the Republican Convention, a
possible contested
convention.
And so it seems that candidates
could potentially
be trying to do things to help
themselves
look more like they're running
for president,
like they could be the nominee.
Having a short
list for vice president, even
though you're
way, way, way behind in the
delegate count,
could be part of that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, over on the
Democratic
side, Bernie Sanders has in the
last few days
started to talk about what he
has been able
to get Hillary Clinton to shift,
I guess,
in terms of what she believes in
and what
she will push for.
He started talking, I guess, on
Friday to
Andrea Mitchell on NBC about
looking at what
Clinton will do with her
platform at the convention.
That's a shift for him, isn't
it?
AMY WALTER: Right.
Yes, we have already seen a
shift in his language
about, we're going to take this
all the way
to the convention floor, to,
well, we're going
to take this all the way to
June, which is
the last primary.
But, look, when I talked about
math and momentum
on the Republican side, it's
happening on
the Democratic side, too. Math
is on Hillary
Clinton's side, but the momentum
is on Bernie
Sanders' side. He continues to
do better and
better in national polling. His
approval rating
numbers are much better than
hers.
In fact, it's quite remarkable
that she's
going to have a very good night
Tuesday, likely
be close enough to sort of wrap
this thing
up if she does as well as the
polls are showing,
and yet her overall negative
ratings among
all voters has really
skyrocketed since the
beginning of this campaign.
So he's done two things. I think
the debate
within the Democratic Party has
shifted her
focus in some ways a little more
to the left,
but it's also taken a big toll
on her standing
with all voters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara, how are
you reading
that in talking to the Clinton
people? How
are they dealing with this right
now?
TAMARA KEITH: They're out with a
new ad today
that is running in some of the
states that
will be voting tomorrow that is
a very positive
campaign ad. It shows Hillary
Clinton being
very human, engaging with
people, including
Sandra Bland's mother, and
really just giving
people hugs.
And it's a very human ad and
it's about love
and kindness. And, really,
they're turning
toward the general election with
that ad,
trying to paint an opposing
vision to that
of Donald Trump and his
negativity.
Donald Trump today again going
after his opponents,
saying that John Kasich is
disgusting when
he eats. So Clinton is trying to
paint that
contrast that she thinks, that
her campaign
thinks will smooth over a lot of
the challenges
that she may be having in this
primary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Of course, Sandra
Bland the
young African-American woman who
died in her
jail cell in Texas.
Very quickly, Amy, Charles Koch,
the billionaire
conservative who has been giving
a lot of
money to Republicans, hinting or
saying that
he would even consider Clinton,
although he
said she would have to shift
some positions.
That's a change.
AMY WALTER: Right.
I think this shows how
splintered the Republican
establishment is on so many
different levels,
even though he's sort of the
anti-establishment.
And it also goes to show how
much focus I
think we're going to see from
the donor class
on races that aren't the
presidential.
A lot more money, I think, is
going to get
spent at the down-ballot level
to protect
Republicans in the Senate and
the House more
so that -- and, P.S., Hillary
Clinton doesn't
want Charles Koch's money or his
endorsement,
as you very well know. That
would play right
into the hands not only of
Bernie Sanders,
but her detractors who think
she's too close
to big money interests.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy Walter,
Tamara Keith, thank
you both.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Beyonce's marketing
genius in the changing world of
music; and
getting to green, a bipartisan
solution to
climate change.
But, first, one year ago today,
a massive
earthquake shook Nepal, killing
more than
8,000 people. Some $4 billion
dollars of assistance
was pledged, but the rebuilding
has been hampered
by rugged conditions, poverty,
and politics.
Special correspondent Fred de
Sam Lazaro explores
the reconstruction efforts as
part of our
partnership with the Pulitzer
Center on Crisis
Reporting and with the
Under-Told Stories
Project at the University of St.
Thomas, in
Minnesota.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Kathmandu
still bears
scars from the quakes, but many
people in
Nepal's bustling capital have
pushed the rubble
aside and started rebuilding
their homes and
lives.
That's not possible in the
quake's worst-hit
regions, villages high up in the
rugged Himalayan
landscape, places that were hard
to reach
even before the disasters
struck. Most people
here were displaced into
makeshift camps miles
away in valleys miles away.
On April 25, 2015, the village
of Mailung
literally slid out of existence;
38 people
died instantly as boulders
rained down from
the mountainside. Five bodies
have never been
recovered from under them.
Parma Singh Tamang ran a grocery
store and
tailoring business in this
abandoned community
once home to 400 people. The
remnants from
his shops peek out from under
tons of granite.
Two daughters-in-law and two
grandchildren
perished here. Others in the
large extended
family that lived here barely
escaped.
PARMA SINGH TAMANG, Survivor
(through translator):
When they heard the loud
rumbling, they were
very confused and ran down by
the river.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Down the
street is the
spot where Selnam Tamang lived.
She wasn't
home on that fateful day. She
was visiting
her mother, leaving her four
children with
her in-laws and eldest child,
Asmita.
SELNAM TAMANG, Survivor (through
translator):
Her grandfather was cooking
fish, and all
the family was gathered in the
main floor
area, but Asmita didn't like
fish, so she
climbed to the second floor of
the house.
Then, suddenly, the earthquake
came, and the
whole house fell, and she was
thrown some
distance away. But the whole
family, they
were crushed.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Including
two younger
daughters and infant son. She
did manage to
rescue their pictures.
I'm really sorry.
Their current situation stokes
the despair.
Most people in the camp say they
have no money
and have received little
assistance to rebuild.
Selnam Tamang scrapes by on
about $3 a day
as a daily laborer, working
about 10 days
each month. And conditions in
the metal-roofed
shacks are not healthy, says
12-year-old Asmita,
who is learning English.
ASMITA TAMANG, Survivor: When
sun is rising,
then very hot.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: It gets very
hot when
the sun rises. Are there many
people who are
sick in this camp?
ASMITA TAMANG: Yes.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: What kind of
sickness
do they have?
ASMITA TAMANG: Diarrhea, and
winter season,
people have pneumonia.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: For Nepal's
inadequate
health care system, the quake
has added demands.
Shanti Uprety, a public health
nurse, says
many of the displaced have
migrated closer
to population centers, like the
one she serves,
in pursuit of work.
SHANTI UPRETY, Nepal (through
translator):
They can't farm their land, and
have no sources
of food, and conditions in the
temporary shelters
are hazardous. Pregnant women
are especially
vulnerable now.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: We followed
along as she
coached Anu Biswakarma, a new
mother, on breast-feeding.
Her 19-day-old son wasn't
thriving.
Days earlier, she'd urged that
the child be
taken to regional hospital, but
this family
could not afford the bus fare.
Uprety has
seen many preventable illnesses
end in tragedy,
and recalled another recent
pregnant patient.
SHANTI UPRETY (through
translator): I knew
that the mother was anemic and
told them to
take her to hospital to deliver,
but they
couldn't afford it, so they both
died. That
case happened three months back.
I have experienced
a few cases like this since the
earthquake.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: The health
system she
works for can't do much to help,
having only
begun to rebuild facilities.
Some social enterprises
did try to help.
One Heart World-Wide has worked
for years
in Nepal on maternal and child
health.
ARLENE SAMEN, One Heart
World-Wide: We had
met a company in Utah that made
these tents
that are 12-by-12, and they're
big enough
to set up as literally a
birthing room. And
so we distributed those and set
them up immediately
after the earthquake. So, in
less than a year,
we have delivered over 1,000,
with no maternal
or newborn deaths in any of
those situations
in our tents.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: But One
Heart's founder,
Arlene Samen, says much of the
international
relief efforts were
uncoordinated and have
met only a tiny fraction of the
need.
ARLENE SAMEN: There's millions
of dollars
that were raised that still have
not been
deployed and could be and should
be given
to people, so they could
rebuild.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: She says
many non-government
aid groups were reluctant to
deploy in Nepal,
blaming the political
dysfunction in a country
that's endured years of
instability.
For five months last winter, an
internal dispute
over a new constitution and
regional politics
led to an unofficial blockade of
the main
trade routes into landlocked
Nepal from India,
for which the two neighbors
blame each other.
Even today, people spend hours
in line for
cooking fuel and gasoline.
So, the country is essentially
paralyzed by
political gridlock?
SUJEEV SHAKYA, Economist: Yes.
It has been.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: As a result,
economist
Sujeev Shakya says some four
billion dollars
in earthquake aid pledged by
several nations
have remained largely unspent,
as rival factions
fight over who should control
how it is dispensed.
SUJEEV SHAKYA: For folks in the
politics,
this is like $4 billion dollars
coming in,
so how much can we make out of
this? This
is how they think. And they need
the right...
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: How much can
they line
their pockets, you mean?
SUJEEV SHAKYA: Yes, line their
pockets. And
that's the whole question.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: However, the
newly formed
National Reconstruction
Authority says it
now has support from all
political factions
and will soon shift into high
gear.
Families will be entitled to
grants of about
$2,000 to rebuild homes.
Communities will
receive aid for schools and
health facilities.
RAM PRASAD THAPALIYA, National
Reconstruction
Authority (through translator):
Within this
four years we will make a new
Nepal. This
Nepal will not be made by
government, but
by the people. The process of
making the new
Nepal will be created by the
government for
the people.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Spokesman
Ram Prasad Thapaliya
said the slow start has two main
causes, the
daunting task of surveying
extensive damage
over forbidding terrain and
setting up a transparent
accountability system.
RAM PRASAD THAPALIYA (through
translator):
To spend this amount of money
that is coming
in, the authority has to spend
that money
with partners. The donors and
the people are
going to be watching to see if
there is any
corruption.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: And there's
growing public
access to information to hold
the government
accountable. Civic groups, using
technology
and media, have set up Web sites
to track
aid dollars. There's even a TV
show called
"Integrity Idol" to single out
government
officials, a group widely viewed
as corrupt.
BLAIR GLENCORSE, Accountability
Lab: In the
beginning, everyone said you
won't find anyone
in Nepal. And, actually, we had
hundreds of
nominations, and the five
finalists were incredible
people at the local level.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Blair
Glencorse and Narayan
Adhikari with the
Washington-based nonprofit
company Accountability Lab,
which produces
the show.
NARAYAN ADHIKARI, Accountability
Lab: Seeing
all this energy coming from
young people and
also especially technology front
as well gives
me a hope.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: But back at
the displaced
people's camp, Parma Singh
Tamang and his
wife, Jyomo, say they're not
holding their
breath for the promised
government assistance.
JYOMO TAMANG, Survivor (through
translator):
I have no hope that we will ever
get back
the life we used to have.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: A few doors
down, Selnam
Tamang is spending a lot of her
meager income
on school fees, investing her
hopes in Asmita's
aspiration.
ASMITA TAMANG: Doctor.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: You want to
be a doctor?
It will be an uncertain, at
times even desperate
journey for many years for her
and so many
Nepalis.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is
Fred de Sam
Lazaro in Nuwakot, Nepal.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Explore more
of Nepal a
year after the earthquake on our
Web site.
We have a 360-degree video of
several locations
from our reporting trip
revealing material
that shows you a complete
perspective. Find
it on our Web site at
PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Anticipation had
been building
all week, and it took just a
matter of hours
over the weekend for Beyonce to
create a major
phenomenon surrounding her
latest work.
Titled "Lemonade," it's her
sixth solo album,
but it has charted new territory
for how she's
created a different a path in a
digital era
of music streaming and
downloading.
Jeffrey Brown has the story.
JEFFREY BROWN: It was a surprise
record, released
at first exclusively on the
music streaming
service Tidal, but also as a
so-called visual
album, a one-hour film shown on
HBO.
Once again, the pop music
phenomenon Beyonce
is doing things her own way, and
this time
with songs and stories that
address both personal
troubles and the larger history
of black women.
Joining us with more is
Salamishah Tillet,
a scholar and professor on black
women performers
at the University of
Pennsylvania.
Welcome to you.
So, surprise albums aren't such
a surprise
anymore, but Beyonce and
"Lemonade" takes
it to a whole 'nother level.
Tell us what's
going on. What do you see?
SALAMISHAH TILLET, University of
Pennsylvania:
Well, I think it's Beyonce
pulling a Beyonce.
And by that, I mean, she is an
artist who
has -- this is her second
consecutive visual
album that was dropped
unexpectedly. I think
it's akin to Michael Jackson's
"Thriller"
premiere on MTV in 1983, and, of
course -- and
this may be controversial, but
to -- it's
comparable to Dylan going
electric at the
Newport Folk Festival in '65,
meaning that
you have an artist who's at
their peak who
is conjuring and converging with
the sound
technologies and the political
demands of
the moment.
So, it's unexpected and it's a
surprise, but
only Beyonce could do this in
this magnificent
of a fashion.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, is it fair to
see it as
part of these big changes and a
kind of continuing
a battle of changes of artists,
music labels,
streaming services, to figure
out sort of
who's in control?
SALAMISHAH TILLET: Definitely.
In many ways, I think it's
Beyonce both aligning
herself with the new
technologies, whether
it's Tidal came about as a way
of artists
being able to control the
content and benefit
from the new streaming services
like Spotify
or Apple Music.
And so Beyonce is responding to
that, but
also she's innovating that,
right? So, it's
not simply, like, releasing
music on a music
streaming service, but she's
also innovating
the artistic form of what we
think of as an
album, what we think of a music
video.
So it's a convergence of an
artist's reinventing
her sound and herself and using
and benefiting
from new technologies, and also
making a statement
to the music industry that
artists can continue
to benefit from, not simply be
exploited by
these changing tides.
JEFFREY BROWN: And grabbing --
so a statement
to the industry and then gabbing
a lot of
quick attention from consumers
with a message
that in this case got a lot of
attention because
it went to some perhaps marital
infidelities
with her famous husband, Jay-Z,
right, and
then to some much larger issues.
SALAMISHAH TILLET: Yes, I think
it's the way
in which Beyonce has been able
to tightly
control her narrative, whether
it's around
issues of marital infidelity or
simply what
she wants to say politically.
And so I think this album is a
convergence
of those things. But I think
it's a mistake
to think about it only as a kind
of confessional
tale, right? It's not simple a
woman who has
been scorned speaking truth to
her man or
speaking truth to power.
It also is an album that I think
exposes another
truth about the United States,
and it's re-imagining
American history through the
performances,
through the music and through
the visual imagery
of black women.
So, it starts in Louisiana
plantations, and
yet it's clearly tied to a kind
of narrative
of racial oppression and gender
oppression
that Beyonce feels like she can
now be a spokesperson
for and an activist in a
movement such as
Black Lives Matter.
So, that's why you have Trayvon
Martin and
Michael Brown's mothers featured
so prominently
and poignantly, and Eric
Garner's mother featured
so prominently in this video.
It's not only
about Beyonce and Jay-Z. It's
about something
much deeper and larger.
And I think it's retelling
American history
through the voices of those who
usually are
on the margins. Beyonce
recenters them and
then allows us to see America
differently
as a result.
JEFFREY BROWN: And very briefly,
she's one
of the few artists who can do it
this way,
right, her own way.
SALAMISHAH TILLET: She's one of
the few artists
who can have this kind of
platform, but that
doesn't mean that the artist
will do that.
So, I think she's coming from a
tradition
of political activists who are
artists as
well. And so I think this is a
new Beyonce.
We are going to figure out what
we do with
a pop star who's gone political.
And I think
it's tremendous.
And she features someone like
Nina Simone
in this. And I think she sees
herself as part
of that tradition, an heir to
that legacy.
JEFFREY BROWN: Salamishah
Tillet, thank you
very much.
SALAMISHAH TILLET: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Last Friday,
Earth Day was
celebrated for the 47th time
since its inception
in 1970. From the beginning, the
environmental
movement had strong support from
both Democrats
and Republicans.
Returning to the movement's
bipartisan roots
is key for future success, says
Fred Rich.
I recently spoke to rich for
this latest addition
to the "NewsHour" Bookshelf.
Fred Rich, thanks for joining
us.
FRED RICH, Author, "Getting to
Green": You're
welcome Hari. I'm glad to be
here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You have been
a corporate
lawyer for 30 years and worked
with industry
that perhaps the green movement
wouldn't find
friendly.
And, on the other hand, you have
been a conservationist
for just as long working with
land trusts.
So, where are you coming at this
book from?
FRED RICH: When I criticize the
green movement
and call them on some of their
recent failings,
so they know it's from a
position of solidarity,
right, I mean, complete sympathy
with the
goals.
I want to see the green movement
succeed.
So they know that I'm coming at
it from that
side. Equally, the right at
least knows I
was a registered Republican
until 2012, pretty
solid fiscal conservative. It
breaks my heart
to see that the conservative
movement in America
has really abandoned a century
of tradition
of support for conservation of
the environment.
So, I hope each side will have
something they
don't like and I hope that
there's something
equally that each side sees that
it does like.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I want to pull
up a quote
from a State of the Union
address: "Shall
we make peace with nature and
begin to make
reparations for the damage we
have done to
our land, to our air, and to our
water? It
has become a common cause of all
people of
this country, clean air, open
spaces. These
should once again be the
birthright of every
American."
This was 1970. It was Richard
Nixon delivering
this.
FRED RICH: Correct.
HARI SREENIVASAN: To bipartisan
applause.
FRED RICH: Correct. It was
amazing.
Richard Nixon, who I have to say
was no nature
lover, but he was a very savvy
politician.
And Richard Nixon believed that
clean air
and clean water was a cause that
transcended
class, it transcended party. He
was very nervous
that the Democrats not get out
front on environment.
And he was dealing in 1970 with
deep divisions
in the country from the civil
rights movement
and especially at that moment
the Vietnam
War. And Nixon had the idea that
environment
could heal those wounds, that
was an issue that would bring
both sides together.
Pretty ironic, given where we
are today.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, we're in
this almost
hyper-partisan world where we
can't even acknowledge
that the other side should have
a right to
exist.
You called it the great
estrangement that
has happened. Explain that.
FRED RICH: Right.
We always seem to think that the
political
landscape of the moment is
permanent. Right?
It's not permanent. I think that
it's absolutely
not only required that we return
to some degree
of bipartisan action, but also
that it's possible.
And if you study what happened
as late as
1990, when we solved acid rain
on a completely
bipartisan basis, you understand
that it is
possible and it's the norm. The
current situation
is the aberration.
HARI SREENIVASAN: How did
individual Americans
get to this point, where in the
'70s, we thought
the environment was one of our
top three priorities,
and today not even in the
ballpark?
FRED RICH: I looked at a lot of
very interesting
social science work and also
work of the so-called
moral psychologists, who look at
how we develop
our political opinions in the
first place.
And there were two things that
came out of
it. This wasn't a bottoms-up
change. It was
a top-down change. The leaders
of movement
conservatism and the tactical
leaders of the
right decided that this change
of position
was tactically desirable. And
the rank and
file followed suit.
It wasn't the other way around,
which I think
is fascinating and very
promising. What the
moral psychology teaches us is
to change the
hearts and minds of the people
for whom anti-environmentalism
is a mark of identity. It's a
mark of what
it is to be a conservative.
Right?
To change that requires
leadership from within
that community, and some people
have emerged
to do just that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, you also
take the green
movement to task.
And there is a quote here. You
say that it's
aging, it lacks the diversity of
the nation
it serves, and rests on a base
of support
that is broad, but perilously
shallow.
FRED RICH: Exactly.
Seventy to 80 percent of
Americans consistently
say they care about clean air
and clean water
and consider themselves
environmentalists.
That's what I mean by broad. But
when you
ask them to rank the things they
say they
care about in order of priority,
consistently,
environment has come in dead
last.
It will never translate into
political power
until people prioritize it,
right, in their
list of issues, and hold the
politicians accountable.
The movement has to become
politically active
again, Hari. On Earth Day in
1970, 20 million
people turned out on the street,
20 million
people from both parties. So, we
have to recover
that energy of a mass political
movement that
we had in the early days.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, you have
prescriptions
here. You say reconnecting
conservatives to
conservation, the philosophy
that puts people
first, and reforming the green
movement.
How do your prescriptions, how
would they
work?
FRED RICH: We have to take away
the -- some
of the reasons and some of the
perceptions
on the part of the right that
have led to
the attitude on climate change,
right?
And one of those is that the
green movement
is against growth, right, is
against business,
is anti-capitalist, that it
doesn't care about
people. I mean, the criticism
that environmentalists
care more about the snail darter
than the
people is a politically
devastating one, and
it can be somewhat true.
I mean, 50 percent of our
population is now
going to live in cities. We have
to be relevant
to that 50 percent, or we're
never going to
have the political power to do
what it takes
on climate change. Right?
We have to learn to take smaller
steps and
incremental steps and show that
there are
things that we can do to make
progress, to
get rid of hopelessness. You
know, one of
the great critics of the
environmental movement
said that Martin Luther King
said, I have
a dream, and 40 years later, we
had an African-American
president.
The environmentalists said, I
have a nightmare,
and 40 years later haven't
really accomplished
much. People respond to a vision
of hope.
So, we have to change the style
of the movement.
We have to change the
perceptions of what
we want. And, basically, we
can't do it ourselves.
People on the right have to show
leadership.
And they're starting to do that.
That's one
of my reasons for real optimism.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Fred Rich.
The book is called "Getting to
Green: Saving
Nature: A Bipartisan Solution."
Thanks so much for joining us.
FRED RICH: Thank you, Hari.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: Thousands of people are
released from
U.S. prisons every year, often
without access
to health coverage and care,
jeopardizing
their own safety and sometimes
the public's.
In Maryland, fewer than a 10th
of those who
leave prisons and jails enroll
in Medicaid.
Our partners at Kaiser Health
News examine
the sometimes dire consequences
for these
former inmates.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And that's the
"NewsHour"
for tonight. I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
Five states go to the polls, and
we will have
reports from on the ground, as
we cover vote
2016.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.